all right so we begin this project guys
by me just cotton this four piece of
wood that I glued together oak on the
table saw
now my blade isn't big enough to culture
and one stroke so I did as I thought as
deep as I can and flip it over line up
with the crosscut sled and then take
another slice after I meant to the
underlay and then start using my
roughing gouge it will fit the shape and
just get it nice and red
marinara all my woodturning projects
actually stick to just treat would turn
in cheese's the part engage the part
code sorry the roughing gouge and the
ball gauge and I find this does most
projects for me so I'm just making a few
indications using the part engage here
just to show where it starts and
finishes and them using the bowl gouge
to go ahead to shape I want this project
is actually great for just practice in
your lathe and getting used to the tools
and you can redo whatever freeform shape
you want
when I'm what turn and I actually like
to do go up to a really fine great so I
start with sixty I'm actually working it
all the way up to 600 so that this it's
so easy to sandal in your turnin and I
just find the finished project just is
so worth it so after I just go through
this bit assignment I actually do is
pick up some of the wood chips from when
I was turning I'm rest honor and that
goes like a sheen to the wood so the
finish on playing is just the usual
blood Lindsey own beeswax mix so just
apply it on with a paper towel and I use
paper towels because that way if the
wood grabs onto it it won't catch rate
and I know just ripped so it's quite
safe afterwards I just buffer a new
paper towel and that disc is a really
nice Sheen kind of a sign glow to the
wood
alright so now I'm just cutting the base
for this so the way I caught a circle is
I screw on one denizens groan ah he said
oak on to my crosscut sled and I get
that's a square of the diameter that I
want to the finish diameter is the width
and length of the square so I just begin
by cutting off all the sharp corners and
then cut all the finer corners and then
eventually what I do is actually hold a
piece of wood and twisted around the
blade and that makes it a perfect circle
now in this shot guys it looks like my
hands are really close to the plate like
you guarantee it or not there's still at
least three inches which obviously if
you are between a fence would be quite
dangerous so I'm not gonna recommend
doing this if you feel uncomfortable
just don't do it they turned out pretty
well I'm happy enough with it
sorry for the quality not being that
good this week I won't be like that next
week well it kind of turned out like
something I really don't want to mention
because I know kids watch this but
that's quite bad look it looks like
something out so anyway please comment
rate and subscribe
thanks for watching I remember Keane
shop is this a show